Previously, we discussed the initial
planning elements of an internal
security audit.
In this video, we'll cover the final
elements that an entry-level analyst
might be asked to complete.
As a reminder, the planning elements
of internal security audits include
establishing the scope and
goals, then conducting a risk assessment.
The remaining elements are completing
a controls assessment,
assessing compliance, and
communicating results.
Before completing these last three
elements, you'll need to review the scope and goals,
as well as the risk assessment,
and ask yourself some questions.
For example: What is the audit meant to achieve?
Which assets are most at risk?
Are current controls sufficient
to protect those assets?
If not, what controls and compliance
regulations need to be implemented?
Considering questions like
these can support your ability
to complete the next element:
a controls assessment.
A controls assessment involves
closely reviewing an organization's existing
assets, then evaluating
potential risks to those assets,
to ensure internal controls and
processes are effective.
To do this, entry-level analysts
might be tasked with classifying
controls into the following categories:
administrative controls,
technical controls, and physical controls.
Administrative controls are related to
the human component of cybersecurity.
They include policies and
procedures that define how an organization
manages data, such as the implementation
of password policies.
Technical controls are hardware and software solutions
used to protect assets, such
as the use of intrusion detection
systems, or IDS's, and encryption.
Physical controls refer to measures
put in place to prevent physical
access to protected assets, such as
surveillance cameras and locks.
The next element is determining whether or
not the organization is adhering to
necessary compliance regulations.
As a reminder,
compliance regulations are laws that
organizations must follow to ensure
private data remains secure.
In this example, the organization conducts
business in the European Union and
accepts credit card payments.
So they need to adhere to the GDPR and
Payment Card Industry Data
Security Standard, or PCI DSS.
The final common element of an internal
security audit is communication.
Once the internal security
audit is complete, results and
recommendations need to be
communicated to stakeholders.
In general, this type of communication
summarizes the scope and
goals of the audit.
Then, it lists existing risks and notes how
quickly those risks need to be addressed.
Additionally, it identifies
compliance regulations
the organization needs to adhere to and
provides recommendations for
improving the organization's
security posture.
Internal audits are a great way to
identify gaps within an organization.
When I worked at a previous company,
my team and I conducted an internal
password audit and found that
many of the passwords were weak.
Once we identified this issue,
the compliance team took the lead and
began enforcing stricter
password policies.
Audits are an opportunity to
determine what security measures an
organization has in place and
what areas need to be improved to
achieve the organization's
desired security posture.
Security audits are quite involved, yet
of extreme value to organizations.
Later in the course,
you'll have an opportunity to complete
elements of an internal security audit for
a fictional company, which you can
include in your professional portfolio.